---
geometry : margin = 2cm
---

# ELP305 : Design and Systems Lab   
## GRAMINDIA  
## Tribe C

## Table of Contents

> [Motivation](#motivation)
> 
> [Abstract](#abstract)
> 
> [Authors](#authors)
>
> [Document Information](#document-information)
> 
> [List of Tables](#list-of-tables)
> 
> [List of Figures](#list-of-figures)
>
> [Description of our village](#description-of-our-village)
>
> [1. Profession](#1-profession)
> 
> [2. Education](#2-education)
>
> [3. Gender](#3-gender)
> 
> [4. Financial Status](#4-financial-status)
> 
> [5. Age](#5-age)
> 
> [Workflow](#workflow)
>
> [References](#references)
>


### [Motivation](#table-of-contents)


### [Abstract](#table-of-contents)


### [Authors](#table-of-contents)



### [Document Information](#table-of-contents)



### [List of Tables](#table-of-contents)



### [List of Figures](#table-of-contents)




### [Description of our village](#table-of-contents)

location, transport, infrastructure etc...


### [1. Profession](#table-of-contents)

#### Farming

-   Who are they?

Farming is the most common occupation in villages, in fact, a majority
of the Indian rural population is associated with agriculture.(*The
Times of India* n.d.)

-   How do they live?

Farmers get up before sunrise and work in the fields till noon. They
work with cattle and tools to sow, plough, and harvest crops. They work
very hard all day and go back after sunset.(“Life On The Farm: How
Farmers Survive Daily Challenges” 2018)

-   What do they earn?

The average farmer household earned Rs 1,22,616 per year in 2018-2019.
This figure was as low as Rs 77,112 ten years ago (in 2012-2013) and as
low as Rs 25,380 twenty years ago (in  2002-2003)

If one takes a view of farming as one would a business, the
inefficiencies are starkly visible. The size of the holding is small for
most farmers. Farmers tend to have an annual crop plan and work towards
managing the farm from one growing season to another.

Large farmers earn almost four folds more farm income than small
farmers. Farm households spend their earned income on food, clothing,
consumer durables, recreations, education, health care, repayment of
previous debts, social ceremonies, seeds, fertilizers, pesticides,
irrigation, machine maintenance, rent for land, labor, and other
expenses. Farmers try to save their earnings by working on the fields in
place of hiring labor or machines, they store seeds for the next crop.
Farmers aspire their children not to do farming, instead get a quality
education so they can find better jobs, they aspire to get good prices
of their cultivation and backed up securities in case of flood, drought,
etc affecting crops. Agricultural land and irrigation systems are the
most important resources farmers have.(Narayanamoorthy& n.d.)

They lack at making alternate strategies in case of bad crops due to
climate change, drought, flood, soil erosion, biodiversity, farmers' lack
at adapting and learning new technologies, inspiring young people to
stay in rural areas and become future farmers.(“Challenges for Modern
Agriculture” n.d.)

**Requirements**

1.  A mechanism to better predict prices, weather and yield

2.  Better Access to modern farm equipment

3.  More efficient , Cheaper farm equipment 

4.  Reduction of Middle-man costs and better access to domestic and
    international markets

5.  Better awareness of modern and contemporary methods of farming 

#### Fishing

They set out to sea in groups for several days depending on the
availability of fish in that region. After returning from their journey
they relax at home and prepare for the next day. Their life is filled
with uncertainty as several times they return with insufficient returns
compared to their expenditure during travel. 

Approximately 61% of them live under the Poverty Line. They aspire for
better lives for their children ;they don’t want their children to
struggle as they do and want them to hold jobs in software and teaching.
Their spending happens on their child’s education, expedition costs
incurred due to food and fuel. They aspire to buy nets that are quite
expensive, own motorized/nonmotorized boats , so they don’t have to depend
on someone else’s boats. According to data, per-capita production of
fisheries is 2 tons in India, while in Norway, the same goes up to 172
tons. Having a meager income and most of them earning Below Poverty
Line, fishermen live a difficult life and struggle to make ends
meet.\[“Fishermen in India - An Overview of Indian Fishing Sector”
(n.d.)\](Srinivasan 2011)

**Requirements** 

1.  Affordable long-time cold storage facilities for storing freshly
    caught fish. This reduces the fluctuations in the market and gives a
    better rates to the fishermen

2.  Better equipment for navigation, prediction of fishing locations and
    prevention ofo overfishing

3.  Better access to financing and market information

4.  Disparity between demand and production

#### Shops

They are generally owned by local people to fulfil local rural demand.

Shops in villages are there to fulfil the basic needs of rural people
since per capita annual income of rural India is only 40,772 Rs. (*The
Economic Times* 2016)

Shops in rural India can be (“The Village Store: Bringing the Urban
Market to Rural India” 2011)

1.  Retail business- like tailoring, small electronic shop, Kirana
    store, saloon, sweet shop, plumbing, etc. size may not be that big

2.  Floor mills

3.  Small manufacturing unit - like production of jute bag, small
    disposable cup, and plates, incense sticks, matchbox , local
    tambaku, etc.

4.  Clothes shop

5.  Fertiliser shop

6.  Vegetable shop

7.  Medical shop

8.  Dairy shop

9.  Oil mills 

10. Thrashing equipment business 

11. Auto repair shop

12. Food joints and sweet shops

13. Local gold shop

14. Flower shop for temples

15. Local handicraft shop

16. Cement shop

The main issue with the shops can be that lower purchasing power in
rural India does not encourage the extension of these shops or the
creation of local entrepreneurs (“India’s Rural Entrepreneurs
Opportunities & Challenges – An Overview” n.d.)

Also, the logistical system is not much strong ( dependent on an
individual vehicle for transportation, please refer to the
transportation section) raises the cost of exported items in these
shops.

But rural shops fares well compared to their urban counterpart in
hedging themselves from corporate retail giants, logistics giants (
maybe because of lower purchasing power of the individual, more sense of
togetherness in rural India, higher inventory and overhead cost, high
logistical cost, uneven demand). (“Cracking the Rural Market a Tough
Task for Organised Retail Chains” n.d.)

Life will depend on what type of shop you own, some shops like dairy,
vegetable and flower shops open early in the morning  Others may open
according to the practised time of people.

**Requirements**

1.  Better Logistics and availability of better quality goods available
    in urban India 

2.  Better payment gateways without any hidden charges for faster and
    more secure transactions

3.  More cash in hand of people to increase demand and spending power.

#### Transport

Roads are a significant part of the development of rural areas - home to
almost 70 percent of India’s population. Although the rural road network
is extensive, some 33 percent of India’s villages do not have access to
all-weather roads and remain cut off during the monsoon season. The
problem is more acute in India’s northern and northeastern states which
are poorly linked to the country’s major economic centers. (“India
Transportation” n.d.)

Transportation allows for access to food, healthcare, educational
opportunities, and employment, ability to access recreation,
entertainment, and other activities that promote community engagement.
Efficient and affordable transportation is an important driver in
economic growth in rural areas and helps ensure that people can obtain
services and participate in public lilfe. (“Transportation Use in Rural
Areas – RHIhub Toolkit” n.d.)

In rural areas, households spend on an average Rs 43 on buses and trams,
while their urban counterparts spend Rs 95 on travel through this mode
of transport. Auto-rickshaws are the second most widespread mode of
transport, with 38 percent of rural households and 47 percent of urban
households reporting having used them. It is followed by taxis, railways,
and rickshaws. Urban households spend 12.5 percent on railways while
rural households spend a fraction of that amount at 4.4 percent. (Bakshi
2016)

Rural residents are more reliant on personally-owned, single-driver
automobiles for transportation than their urban counterparts. Personal
vehicles can be expensive to purchase and maintain, and some residents
may not have drivers’ licenses.(“Transportation Use in Rural Areas –
RHIhub Toolkit” n.d.)

Buses are one of the major modes of transportation in rural areas. Due
to the shortage of bus drivers, most drivers have to work extremely long
hours for very little pay. The average monthly salary of bus drivers in
India is Rs. 25000. Due to long work hours, drivers are often sleep
deprived, which becomes the cause of many road accidents. Accidents by
buses accounted for 5.9% of the total number of road accidents in India
in 2019. The vehicles are also very unreliable due to poor maintenance. 

Another problem faced by the bus drivers is that they are allotted a
different vehicle every time they undertake a new journey. This is a
problem because they don’t know what the status of the new bus is, the
last time the bus was serviced and what problems it faced
earlier.(Lalwani n.d.)

The Daily wage of a person employed in the transport sector range from INR 180
to 350 .(“Wcms_638305.pdf” n.d.)

The transport sector has not been able to keep pace with the rising
demand and is proving to be a drag on the economy. With the
improvement of transportation facilities in rural areas along with urban
areas, the urge for migration to urban areas decreases thus helps in
balanced development of the country as a whole.(“India Transportation”
n.d.)

There has been a gradual change in terms of increased income and
employment opportunities as a result of road projects. During road
construction, many locals are able to access employment opportunities
by paying them the standard daily labor rate. However, the majority of the
households are still dependent on agriculture as their primary source of
income and the major investment continues to be in agriculture. The
roadworks benefited the local poor and wage laborers to some extent by
providing limited site-work opportunities. (“Transport Sector in India –
Focusing on Results,” n.d.)

Major challenges faced by the transport providers are an increase in fuel
prices and inadequately trained drivers. In the current scenario, there is
a scarcity of the trained drivers and high fuel prices are likely to
increase the transport cost. In the case of railways, cleanliness and
security is the major issue faced by the transport users followed by the
availability of quality food. In majority of the trains, availability of
water in the toilets and toilets cleanliness is not up to the mark
particularly in case of second class travel. In most of the trains there
is no proper security systems because of which theft cases registered
are more, particularly, in general and second class
compartments.(Potluri and Tejaswi 2018)

**Requirements**

1.  Affordable fuel prices

2.  Availability of training programs for drivers so that they could get
    higher wages and in turn would help in traffic regulation.

3.  Better connected all weather roads that could sustain longer and
    enhance freight movement and road experience.

4.  Frequent cleaning of roads and trains

5.  Reduction in prices for public vehicles so that people can move
    towards public transportation.

6.  Faster emergency response incase of accidents

7.  Movement towards electric transport and buses

#### Animal Husbandry

Animal husbandry

They are named as farmers.

Types of animal husbandry

Livestock farming-  Livestock are the domesticated animals raised in an
agricultural setting to provide labour and produce commodities such as
meat, eggs, milk, fur, leather, and wool. In the village mainly it is
about selling milk and eggs.

Let’s talk about cattle farming. A villager on an average earns about
20-25k from selling milk of cows and buffalos. Cost of milk in villages
ranges from 25-35₹/lt. They get food for cattle from cattle feed
shops/pashu aahar shops in bulk which gets them some profit. They also
have to get vaccines as Cattle ought to be regularly vaccinated. They
save by selling products at a higher price, Straw from cereals grown
on-farm can be fed directly to animals or treated with urea to improve
the nutritional quality, sell multiple food items made from milk like
curd, cheese, ghee etc. They spend money on fundamental essentials since
it is all they can afford with the money they make. They spend money on
food, clothes, and other necessities of life. They also spend on
necessities for cattle ranching, such as fodder, vaccines, and
infrastructure. They don’t waste money on things that aren’t required.
Feeders, water tubs or watering systems, and health care equipment are
some of the basic equipment. The majority of resources are easily
available, such as water, feed, and energy, and do not cost a lot of
money, but certain resources, such as creating infrastructure for
cows/buffaloes, requires our time and costs money. The resource they
supply is Milk which may be used to create curd, cheese, yogurt, and
butter etc. They also provide manure which is used as a fertilizer.
(“Milk Is Selling at about Half the Price. From Kashmir to Kanyakumari …
All Are Suffering” 2020)

The problems faced by them are  

-   Inadequate availability of credit.

-   Lack of access to markets may act as a disincentive to farmers to
    adopt improved technologies and quality inputs. Also Poor accesses
    to organized markets deprive farmers of proper milk price.

-   Limited availability of quality breeding bulls.

-   Deficiency of vaccines and vaccination set-up.

-   Due to industrialization and Urbanization Majority of grazing lands
    are either degraded or encroached.

-   Diversion of feed and fodder ingredients for industrial use.
    (“Challenges Faced by Livestock Sector in India – Civilsdaily” n.d.)

#### DAIRY

Dairying has been a benefit to dairy farmers and, in particular, to
those elements of society that have historically been marginalised, such
as small landholders, landless labourers, and women. In rural areas, a
large number of impoverished people depend mainly on livestock. It has
given those who could previously only rely on payments from tiny
seasonal crops or on occasional labour a year-round source of income. It
is estimated that dairying currently accounts for up to 60-65 percent of
the revenue of marginal and small-scale farmers. Dairying and crop
production combined were more profitable than crop farming alone for
small-scale farmers with irrigated land. (“Cattle and Dairy Development
\| Department of Animal Husbandry & Dairying” n.d.)

The daily routine of a dairy farmer begins very early in the morning.
The feeding process is initiated at around 5.30 am, and the day involves
bathing the milch herd, ensuring that the sick animals receive treatment
and most importantly, that they are milked on time.(“A Day in the Life
of Rajeev Gupta, 52, a Dairy Farmer in Agra” 2017) 

India’s dairy business is dominated by millions of rural smallholder
milk producers, who account for 62 percent of the country’s total milk
production. Further, the dairy sector is the major source of income for
an estimated 27.6 million people which is the main reason that India
ranks first in the world in milk production(Belhekar and Dash, n.d.) .
Based on aggregate production per worker in each sector, aggregate
estimates imply that labour productivity in dairying is around 2.5 times
greater than in agriculture overall. The annual return on labour is
around INR 45,000 in dairying and approximately INR 17,000 in the
agriculture industry as a whole. This is due to its labour-intensive
character, capacity to create employment from limited land areas
throughout the year, and involvement in rural income
redistribution.(“LMIS-on-Dairy.pdf” n.d.)

The milk production in the dairy sector is influenced to a great extent
by the feeding pattern, the quality of feed and the ingredients in the
feed. The feed and fodder accounts for about 50 per cent of the total
expenditure of a dairy farmer depending upon the condition under which
the milch animals are kept for milk production. Dry fodder is the major
feed item for all types of milch animals followed by the concentrates.
Other expenditures include labour capital, cost of animals, and cost of
technical input.(Kumawat, Singh, and Meena 2014)

**Requirements**

1.  Cattles must be carefully cared for - a correct ratio of quality and
    quantity of fodder should be provided.

2.  Selection of excellent breeds with high productive potential under
    the climatic conditions coupled with disease resistance. 

3.  The cleanliness and sanitation of the animals is very important 
    during milking, storage, and transportation of milk and milk
    products. 

4.  The shed must be clean and roomy, with enough feeding, watering, and
    lighting facilities. 

5.  Monitoring and treatment of health issues and illnesses by
    veterinary professionals is required. 

Improvements needed in dairy sector:

1.  Dairying should be built as a sustainable business in the country’s
    distant rural locations to increase rural income and employment.
    This can go a long way toward alleviating poverty, unemployment, and
    violence in the country’s rural parts. 

2.  Adequate health Management practices should be in place for
    prevention of diseases on the farm. All the producers should be
    informed about the importance of observing hygiene and cleanliness
    of animals and milkers at the time of milking and at the milk
    collection centre.

3.  Different advanced technological solutions like fitness tracker for
    cattle, milking devices and mechanisms for easy cattle monitoring
    should be made available at reasonable prices in the rural areas to
    increase production and ease the load on dairy farmers.

#### DAY LABOUR

-   Who are they?

Day labour is work done where the labourer is recruited and paid each
day in turn, with no guarantee that more work will be accessible later.

-   How do they work and live?

A day labourer is somebody keen on taking on transitory positions in
return for payment. Day workers offer types of assistance for various
kinds of work, for example: cleaning, transporting materials,
remodelling, tool operation, operating machinery Most day workers have
specialised skills, such as hardwood floor installation, carpentry,
carpet installation and other technical projects requiring experience.
He works from morning till evening, according to the direction of his
employer. He gets up early in the morning and goes out in search of
work. They work outdoors and are usually employed in agricultural and
constructional work. Their work needs strength rather than skill.

-   What do they earn?

The Seventh Pay Commission recommended daily wages between Rs 596 and Rs
723 to unskilled and skilled workers, respectively. Today, the national
minimum wage stands at Rs 178 per day. It can be considered the national
floor-level wage.(Pioneer n.d.)

-   How do they spend money?

Their income is very low and sometimes cannot earn even a reasonable
wage. Then he/she goes to market, buys his/her daily necessaries and
returns to his/her house. He/she works hard the whole day and buys food
for his family. He/she has both pleasures and pains. If they earn more,
they get pleasures.

-   What do they lack?

 Lack of skills and experience, and insufficient capital to invest in
their own businesses were the most commonly cited reasons for why it was
challenging for participants to transition from the informal sector to
any formal work. (“Daily Wage Earner \| Concepts \| Statistics Finland”
n.d.)

**Requirements**

1.  Credit facilities to be made available to make initial investment
    and for further expansion for the informal workers. 

2.  Social security schemes for the unorganised workers should be
    implemented 

3.  Difficulty in finding work, long hours, not paid enough, health
    issues/ challenges, feeling unsafe doing the work/safety hazards,
    treated disrespectfully at work should be solved.

Conclusion:

We should make efforts to improve their working conditions in terms of
occupational safety, working hours, payment of adequate wages to them so
that the informal workers engaged in unorganised sector of employment
may have mandatory decent and dignified work.

#### References

<div id="refs" class="references csl-bib-body hanging-indent">

<div id="ref-DayLifeRajeev2017" class="csl-entry">

“A Day in the Life of Rajeev Gupta, 52, a Dairy Farmer in Agra.” 2017.
*The Indian Express* (blog). April 5, 2017.
<https://indianexpress.com/article/india/meat-and-milk-are-two-sides-of-the-same-coin-rajeev-gupta-a-dairy-farmer-in-agra-4595943/>.

</div>

<div id="ref-bakshiNSSOSurveyDurables2016" class="csl-entry">

Bakshi, Ishan. 2016. “NSSO Survey: Among Durables, Households Spend
Highest on Vehicles.” *Business Standard India*, June 30, 2016.
<https://www.business-standard.com/article/economy-policy/nsso-survey-among-durables-households-spend-highest-on-vehicles-116062901475_1.html>.

</div>

<div id="ref-belhekarRoleDairyIndustry" class="csl-entry">

Belhekar, Satish, and Soumyakant Dash. n.d. “Role of Dairy Industry in
Rural Development in India,” 2.

</div>

<div id="ref-CattleDairyDevelopment" class="csl-entry">

“Cattle and Dairy Development \| Department of Animal Husbandry &
Dairying.” n.d. Accessed February 22, 2022.
<https://dahd.nic.in/about-us/divisions/cattle-and-dairy-development>.

</div>

<div id="ref-ChallengesFacedLivestock" class="csl-entry">

“Challenges Faced by Livestock Sector in India – Civilsdaily.” n.d.
Accessed February 22, 2022.
<https://www.civilsdaily.com/challenges-faced-by-livestock-sector-in-india/>.

</div>

<div id="ref-ChallengesModernAgriculture" class="csl-entry">

“Challenges for Modern Agriculture.” n.d. Syngenta. Accessed February
22, 2022.
<https://www.syngenta.com/en/innovation-agriculture/challenges-modern-agriculture>.

</div>

<div id="ref-CrackingRuralMarket" class="csl-entry">

“Cracking the Rural Market a Tough Task for Organised Retail Chains.”
n.d. Business Today. Accessed February 22, 2022.
<https://www.businesstoday.in/magazine/features/story/cracking-the-rural-market-organised-retail-chains-132218-2013-07-24>.

</div>

<div id="ref-DailyWageEarner" class="csl-entry">

“Daily Wage Earner \| Concepts \| Statistics Finland.” n.d. Accessed
February 22, 2022.
<https://www.stat.fi/meta/kas/paivapalkkainen_en.html>.

</div>

<div id="ref-FishermenIndiaOverview" class="csl-entry">

“Fishermen in India - An Overview of Indian Fishing Sector.” n.d. BYJUS.
Accessed February 22, 2022.
<https://byjus.com/free-ias-prep/fishermen-in-india-upsc-notes/>.

</div>

<div id="ref-IndiaRuralEntrepreneurs" class="csl-entry">

“India’s Rural Entrepreneurs Opportunities & Challenges – An Overview.”
n.d. Accessed February 22, 2022.
<https://datascience.foundation/datatalk/india-s-rural-entrepreneurs-opportunities-challenges-an-overview>.

</div>

<div id="ref-IndiaTransportation" class="csl-entry">

“India Transportation.” n.d. Text/HTML. World Bank. Accessed February
22, 2022.
<https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/feature/2011/09/23/india-transportation>.

</div>

<div id="ref-kumawatEconomicAnalysisCost2014" class="csl-entry">

Kumawat, Raju, N K Singh, and Chiranjee Lal Meena. 2014. “Economic
Analysis of Cost and Returns of Milk Production, Extent of Adoption of
Recommended Management Practices on Sample Dairy Farms in Bikaner
District of Rajasthan,” 9.

</div>

<div id="ref-lalwaniUnreliableVehiclesLong" class="csl-entry">

Lalwani, Vijayta. n.d. “Unreliable Vehicles, Long Hours, Low Pay: What
It Is Like Being a Bus Driver in India.” Text. Scroll.in.
https://scroll.in. Accessed February 22, 2022.
<https://scroll.in/article/930305/unreliable-vehicles-long-hours-low-pay-what-it-is-like-being-a-bus-driver-in-india>.

</div>

<div id="ref-LifeFarmHow2018" class="csl-entry">

“Life On The Farm: How Farmers Survive Daily Challenges.” 2018.
*Gonzales Equipment Sales Inc.* (blog). October 25, 2018.
<https://gonzalesequipment.com/a-life-on-the-farm/>.

</div>

<div id="ref-http://zotero.org/users/local/bKPh5eKf/items/CSKCCCP7"
class="csl-entry">

“LMIS-on-Dairy.pdf.” n.d. Accessed February 22, 2022.
<http://asci-india.com/pdf/LMIS-on-Dairy.pdf>.

</div>

<div id="ref-MilkSellingHalf2020" class="csl-entry">

“Milk Is Selling at about Half the Price. From Kashmir to Kanyakumari …
All Are Suffering.” 2020. *Gaonconnection \| Your Connection with Rural
India* (blog). April 18, 2020.
<https://en.gaonconnection.com/milk-is-selling-at-about-half-the-price-gaon-connection-spoke-to-dairy-farmers-in-14-states-from-kashmir-to-kanyakumari-all-are-suffering/>.

</div>

<div id="ref-narayanamoorthyWhyFarmIncome" class="csl-entry">

Narayanamoorthy&, A. n.d. “Why Farm Income in India Is so Low.” Accessed
February 22, 2022.
<https://www.thehindubusinessline.com/opinion/why-farm-income-in-india-is-so-low/article64356995.ece>.

</div>

<div id="ref-pioneerWagesLabour" class="csl-entry">

Pioneer, The. n.d. “Wages of Labour.” The Pioneer. Accessed February 22,
2022.
<https://www.dailypioneer.com/2021/columnists/wages-of-labour.html>.

</div>

<div id="ref-potluriChallengesTransportSector2018" class="csl-entry">

Potluri, Rajasekhara Mouly, and Satagopam Padma Tejaswi. 2018.
“Challenges of Transport Sector in India: A Dyadic Perspective.” *The
Journal of Asian Finance, Economics and Business* 5 (3): 95–102.
<https://doi.org/10.13106/jafeb.2018.vol5.no3.95>.

</div>

<div id="ref-srinivasanDayLifeFisherman2011" class="csl-entry">

Srinivasan, Madhumitha. 2011. “A Day in the Life of… …a Fisherman.” *The
Hindu*, May 23, 2011, sec. Young World.
<https://www.thehindu.com/features/kids/a-day-in-the-life-of-a-fisherman/article2041894.ece>.

</div>

<div id="ref-BigGapCapita2016" class="csl-entry">

*The Economic Times*. 2016. “Big Gap in Per Capita Income in Urban and
Rural Areas,” May 10, 2016.
<https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/big-gap-in-per-capita-income-in-urban-and-rural-areas/articleshow/52208067.cms?from=mdr>.

</div>

<div id="ref-LifeIndianFarmer" class="csl-entry">

*The Times of India*. n.d. “The Life of an Indian Farmer.” Accessed
February 22, 2022.
<https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/readersblog/shameem-ahmad/the-life-of-an-indian-farmer-36314/>.

</div>

<div id="ref-VillageStoreBringing2011" class="csl-entry">

“The Village Store: Bringing the Urban Market to Rural India.” 2011. The
Better India. August 10, 2011.
<https://www.thebetterindia.com/3890/the-village-store-bringing-the-urban-market-to-rural-india/>.

</div>

<div id="ref-TransportSectorIndia" class="csl-entry">

“Transport Sector in India – Focusing on Results.” n.d., 181.

</div>

<div id="ref-TransportationUseRural" class="csl-entry">

“Transportation Use in Rural Areas – RHIhub Toolkit.” n.d. Accessed
February 22, 2022.
<https://www.ruralhealthinfo.org/toolkits/transportation/1/use-in-rural>.

</div>

<div id="ref-http://zotero.org/users/local/bKPh5eKf/items/4EPJWY83"
class="csl-entry">

“Wcms_638305.pdf.” n.d. Accessed February 22, 2022.
<https://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/---asia/---ro-bangkok/---sro-new_delhi/documents/publication/wcms_638305.pdf>.

</div>

</div>



### [2. Education](#table-of-contents)

#### Government School
According to Annual Status of Education Report(ASER) - 2021, it has been observed that from year 2018 to year 2021 around 4% increase in government school enrollments and became 70.3%.Survey says that most of the government enrolled students describing their reason of study in government school is financial issue. In Indian villages poverty ratio is 32.75% which is very less compared to urban having 8.8%.

- Studying in government schools we can say is that there is no competitive environment which is needed a bit for your growth. 
- Attention of teachers towards students which is very less in most of the government schools situated in villages.
- A student living in village has less chance of having friend circle motivated to study. As at the end of the day they all are contributing to their father's profession and for the rest of the time enjoying with friends.
That is my observation in a remote village of Gujarat.

####  Private School

#####  Living :
Living will be same as average person in a village. Not spending much on extra services but only ensuring essential services.
#####  Earning :
- Low paying Govt. jobs for high school educated
- Farming
- Cattle farming
- Working as laborer
- Own shops / small family business


##### Savings :
As being educated , they will be familiar with advantaged of banks. So most of them will have their money in banks.

##### Spend :

- Food
- Education of children
- Health (using govt. facilities)
- Electricity
- Cloths
- Transportation

##### Important resources they have :

- Cattles
- Fields

##### What do they might lack :
Access to services such as electricity , hospitality, higher education too as they could not pursue college.



#### Education -- Bachelors:
According to the latest census, only 8.15% of people in India are graduates, and approximately one-third of these are from rural areas. 
- Standard of living: Since these are people that are somewhat more educated than the rest of the rural population, their lifestyle is quite good than the rest of the rural people.
- Earning: Average income of graduates in the village is higher than the people having less education. Mostly, they earn by teaching in some schools or some nearby colleges, serving in the army. And in some extreme cases, if they don't find some appropriate source of income, they take agriculture as their main source of income.
- How do they spend: Normally, it will be for the education of children, house maintenance(like electricity bills, water bills, etc.), food, clothes, etc. 
- Savings: Most of them save some part of their income in banks. Since these belong to the educated part of villages, some of them may be familiar with investment in stocks, real estate, etc., and can use some part of their savings in these investments.   
- Important resources: Since belonging to a village, most of them are expected to have their main resources as land, some cattle. They also have education as one of their important resource.
- Resources lacking and problems: Some of the main resources they lack are basic facilities like regular electricity, proper medical facilities, pure drinking water, etc. Also, due to lack of opportunities in villages, most of them cannot work as per their potential and have to settle for less.

#### Education-- Masters:
According to the data of the survey performed in 2011, only 6.7% of the villagers are graduates or above, with 7.6% and 5.4% being the percentage for men and women graduates, respectively. There are as many as 3077 villages in India which do not even have a single graduate person. The rural post graduate women have unemployment percentage as high as 36.8%, which is about 13.3% for rural postgraduate men.
##### Define the people based on your category
- Villagers can be defined as the people who suffer from the unavailability of optimum resources of education in comparison to the urban areas, owing to their less literacy rate. They can also be referred to as the people doing jobs in post offices, banks, government schools that are in the rural areas.

##### How do they live?
- The standard of living in villages is not an indicator of any educational or economic status. It majorly depicts the availability of facilities available at ease in villages. The villagers lead a simple lifestyle where the availability of groceries, health services and other facilities is less and harder to fetch as compared to the urban areas.

##### What do they earn?
- The income of postgraduates is broadly divided into three components where one is the postgraduates involved in government jobs and residing in villages which have an average annual income of 6 lacs-7 lacs while the others are the one who are involved in agricultural or any small-scale business where the average annual income is around 3 lacs- 4 lacs. While one is category of unemployed postgraduates which is 17.1% of the postgraduates residing in villages with no income at all.

#####  How do they shop, save, and spend?
- The expenditure in rural areas is less as compared to the urban areas since the available facilities and price of goods are less and, most of the villager's own cattle and agricultural land which saves their expenditures on food items. In contrast to the urban areas, the statistics show that villagers have higher savings.

##### What are the most important resources they have?
- The most valuable resource in the case of post graduate villagers is the knowledge that they possess. Apart from that, most of the villagers have land and livestock as their primary resources.

##### What is that they lack?
- They are lacking opportunities for future growth. The facilities, whether they be in terms of connectivity, monetary, health or any other sphere, appear to be lesser in comparison to the urban areas which are resulting in drastic levels of unemployment. One reason for unemployment is the quality of education imparted to the youth, which industries do not find attractive enough.

##### What are the problems faced by them?
- The villagers and their families are exposed to poor foundation skills, financial constraints, lack of equipment and digital literacy. Obtaining higher education becomes relatively harder for villagers as compared to people residing in urban areas due to the lesser number of universities present at their proximity. Not to mention, the financial constraints associated with villagers, as a result of which many are not able to go to urban areas to achieve higher education. Apart from that, there is also a lack of awareness about what career and path to pursue further among villagers.




#### No School 
Education plays a crucial role in shaping an individual’s personality. Many people in rural India are deprived of this basic right. The number of schools in rural India is very less in comparison to the urban areas, with few rural areas having no schools at all. Most students who have no schools in the nearby areas, need to travel to far-flung areas in order to reach their schools. The lack of transport hinders them to do so. In India, we also have many tribes, who don’t have any fixed location to stay and travel from one place to another the whole year. These people also don’t get the right to education. The Indian patriarchal society also poses another challenge where many people don’t allow their daughters to go to school. This provides another hindrance in the education of the female gender. The pandemic offered another issue where the education shifted to the online mode. The way of teaching in rural places is primitive and these people couldn’t equip themselves with modern day gadgets and internet facilities to continue their education. 
Thus, the rural people see education as an expense rather than an investment. They prefer their children to earn and work. Along with this, the lack of proper schooling with good infrastructure facilities hinders education for many people. There is also a lack of guidance on the importance of education for both children and their parents.



####  Distribution of children enrolled in schools across rural India in 2019

<div align="center">

| Characteristic.           | Share of children.        
| :----------------------: | :------------------:|
| Government pre-school.    | 2.8%               |
| Not enrolled and others   | 8.4%               |
|Government school           | 23.9%             |
| Anganwadi                        | 27.6%       |
| Private                               | 37.3%  |

</div>


<p align = "center">
<b>Table 2.1 Distribution of children in Schools. </b></figcaption>
</p

### [3. Gender](#table-of-contents)


#### Who are the people we refer to as villagers?

 Women in Rural India constitute about half of the rural population. A little more than 48 per cent of the Indian rural population is female, according to the Socio Economic and Caste Census 2011. 
 
#### How do they live?

Farmers, wage earners, and entrepreneurs are all essential positions for women in the rural economy. They are also responsible for the well-being of their family members, including providing food and caring for youngsters and the old. They are less often literate than their male counterparts. Typically, they don’t get to own land. Women work in agriculture, cattle, hunting, and forestry, among other traditional jobs and subsistence activities. They perform critical responsibilities in their communities as family caregivers and keepers of traditional knowledge, which is critical to their people's survival and integrity, as well as their livelihoods and resilience. 

#### What do they earn?

Rural women workers are less likely to engage in wage employment than women in urban areas, and when they do, they tend to earn less than their male counterparts. Rural women, on average, are paid 25 percent less than men, and they typically work longer hours. They are also often engaged in labor-intensive work under challenging conditions, lacking occupational safety and health measures and social protection.

#### How do they shop?

- 84% travel outside their village to nearby city or district headquarters to make purchases and bring the products home.
- Majority of rural women consumers buy high-value goods – which again is a myth buster for companies thinking that women mostly prefer to purchase low-value goods.
- 37% of the rural women consumers make purchases on their own. The figure is as high as 40% for working women in rural India.
    
#### How do they save?

The study identified that there are principally two major ways through which rural women save their finances. These are in cash or kind forms. The cash methods of saving include saving through banks, financial self-help associations, money lending, and house saving. The non-cash methods of saving include purchasing land, storage of agricultural produce, livestock investment, rentals, and building houses. Individual analysis showed that the non-cash method was the major way of saving by the rural women farmers. This was testified by the 90% and 60% of the women that save through non-cash and cash methods respectively. However, identified primary non-cash methods of saving were an investment in livestock production (88%) and storage of farm produce (78.4). The major cash methods of saving among the rural women farmers are; house saving (79.6%) and money lending (45.4%).

#### How do they spend their money?

For an average rural Indian, food accounted for 52.9% of their overall expenditure, including 10.8 percent for cereals and cereal substitutes, 8 percent for milk and milk products, 7.9 percent on beverages, refreshments, and processed food, and 6.6 percent on vegetables.
Among the non-food items, rural Indians spent about 8 percent on Fuel / Light, 7 percent on Clothing & Footwear, 6.7 percent on medical expenses, 3.5 percent on Education, 4.2 percent on conveyance, and 8.5 percent on consumer services and durables.
In this rural area, women mostly spend their money on Food, Clothing, and medical expenses.

####  What do they aspire to do?

- Some women might have hobbies like singing, dancing, acting or wants to play some sports for which the facilities are not available in villages.
- In villages, people think that the girl has to marry and go to her husband’s house so they don’t teach them. So girls don’t get higher or even basic education in villages through which they may become independent.
- Proper sanitization facilities are also not present in villages.

####  What are the most important resources they have?

- In the village, most of the women are homemakers, and they rely on their husband’s earnings.  
- They also help in agricultural work and collect wood or water for their family.

####  What do they Lack?

- Sanitation facilities  
- Basic facilities like fuel, tap water  
- Proper education (considerably less than male counterpart)  
- Financial independence

#### Requirements

- Women require appropriate Sanitation facilities  
- Need of clean fuel (LPG)
- Access to equal education at a young age and no early stopping  
- Availability of some quick method to avoid reliance on male members of the family to shop daily necessity things
- Equality in representation in political arena
- Equal access to healthcare
- Better access to water

### [4. Financial Status](#table-of-contents)




### [5. Age](#table-of-contents)






### [Workflow](#table-of-contents)



### [References](#table-of-contents)
